Editorial review: Document scroll-triggered animations (#43158)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/guides/animation_triggers/using_scroll-triggered_animations/index.md

---
title: Using CSS scroll-triggered animations
short-title: Scroll-triggered animations
slug: Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers/Using_scroll-triggered_animations
page-type: guide
sidebar: cssref
---

> **CSS scroll-triggered animations** provide a declarative mechanism to trigger [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations) when an element enters a specific activation range inside a parent element's scrollport.

Author: Updated

```css
view-timeline-name: --my-timeline;
timeline-trigger-source: --my-timeline;
```

> [!NOTE]
> According to the specification, it is also possible to set the `timeline-trigger-source` to a [scroll progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#scroll_progress_timelines) or to the default time-based timeline. However, these options don't provide any useful effect, and result in the animation starting on page load.

The only thing left to do is define {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} for the `fade-in` animation referenced earlier in the `animation` property value.

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___different-trigger live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range live-sample___play-once
@keyframes fade-in {
  from {
    opacity: 0;
  }

  to {
    opacity: 1;
  }
}
```

The above example renders like so:

{{embedlivesample("basic-scroll-triggered", "100%", 500)}}

> Note how the figure starts to fade in as soon as any part of it becomes visible in the viewport, whether you are moving it in from the bottom or the top. It doesn't fade out again until the entire image has moved out of the viewport, so by default, you won't see this. You'll learn about adjusting the position at which the animation activates and deactivates later on, starting with [Adjusting the trigger activation range](#adjusting_the_trigger_activation_range).

Author: I'd rather not, because I want to show the default behavior first before then showing how to modify that. I've rephrased it a bit.

This is because the default range between the animation activating and deactivating (the **activation range**) is the {{cssxref("timeline-range-name")}} `cover` value — the animation activates as soon as the start edge of the trigger enters the end edge of the viewport, and deactivates (reverses, in our case) when the end edge of the trigger has exited the start edge of the viewport.

We can change the activation range using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-start")}} and {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-end")}} properties, respectively, or the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range")}} shorthand to set both values in a single declaration. Each these properties can take as values:

- A {{cssxref("length-percentage")}} value to specify a different point along the `cover` range (by default, the `timeline-trigger-activation-range-start` value computes to `cover 0%` and the `timeline-trigger-activation-range-end` value computes to `cover 100%`).
- A different `timeline-range-name` keyword to specify a different range.
- A `timeline-range-name` and a `<length-percentage>` to specify a certain point along a different range.

> So for example, the following would cause the animation to activate at the end of the `entry` range (when the trigger's end edge crosses the viewport's end edge) and deactivate `70%` of the way through the `exit` range (slightly before the trigger's end edge crosses the viewport's start edge):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So for example, the following would cause the animation to activate at the end of the `entry` range (when the subject's end edge crosses the viewport's end edge) and deactivate `70%` of the way through the `exit` range (slightly before the subject's end edge crosses the viewport's start edge):
```

---
title: Using CSS scroll-triggered animations
short-title: Scroll-triggered animations
slug: Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers/Using_scroll-triggered_animations
page-type: guide
sidebar: cssref
---

CSS **scroll-triggered animations** provide a declarative mechanism to start, pause, stop, or reverse an element's {{domxref("DocumentTimeline")}}-based [CSS animation](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations) when the user scrolls it (or a different element) to a specified offset within a scrollport.

This article covers how to create CSS scroll-triggered animations.

## Scroll-triggered animation concepts

A common UI pattern involves triggering animations on a web page when the user scrolls to a certain place in the content, for example to pull in additional UI elements or draw the user's attention to certain details.

> CSS scroll-triggered animations enable defining scroll-based triggers that start and stop regular [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations). For example, you can define trigger positions inside a {{glossary("scroll container")}} so that, when a tracked element reaches those positions within the scrollport, they toggle the play state of an animation applied to that element, or a completely different one.

Reviewer 2: This is a good definition of the whole concept (not merely an example)

Author: Changed, as suggested in the PR.

> [!NOTE]
> Scroll-triggered animations provide an alternative to using JavaScript features — such as frameworks or the [Intersection Observer API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API) — to trigger animations on scroll. CSS scroll-triggered animations are more performant and, arguably, simpler to implement.

### Scroll-triggered versus scroll-driven animations

Scroll-triggered animations are similar to [CSS scroll-driven animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations), but they are different:

> - Scroll-triggered animations are regular time-based animations that play when a trigger becomes active; they always complete in the amount of time defined by the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}}), regardless of how fast the user scrolls.

Reviewer 2: Animation run time = duration * iterations.

Reviewer 2: I think if an animation is played, the delay is observed, but if it is paused, and restarts, an extra delay isn't added back in, but if the delay hasn't expired, it continues.

Author: I used some of your PR suggestions here, but I thought it went a bit overboard in terms of complexity, so I simplified it down a bit.

## Scroll-triggered animation basics

Let's walk through a basic example to show you how a scroll-triggered animation works. An image caption will fade in and out when the image it is captioning is scrolled into and out of view. In this case:

- The {{htmlelement("figcaption")}} element has a {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animation set on it: a fade-in effect. This animation is the _triggered animation_.
- We will specify that the animation should play forwards when the trigger is _activated_, fading the caption in, and play in reverse when the trigger is _deactivated_, fading the caption out. These are the _animation actions_.
- The _animation triggers_ are defined on the `<img>` element. The activation is triggered when the `<img>` starts entering the scrollport and the deactivation occurs when the `<img>` fully exits the viewport, meaning the full viewport is the _timeline range_.

> - For now, the [timeline range](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timeline_insets) equates to `cover`, the default timeline range for an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) created using the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function, which is what we'll set as the _trigger source_ on the {{htmlelement("img")}} element.

Reviewer 2: TMI for here.
We don't mention we're using `view()` prior, so reducing and integrating on line 206

Author: I cut this down as suggested in the PR.

   - A {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}, `--t`, which is the identifier set as the value of the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}} property on the triggering element.
   - Two {{cssxref("&lt;animation-action>")}} values, which specify how the animation should behave when the trigger is activated and deactivated. When the trigger is activated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play forwards. When the trigger is deactivated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play backwards.

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range
figcaption {
  animation: fade-in 1s ease-in both;
  animation-trigger: --t play-forwards play-backwards;
}
```

The second ruleset creates the animation trigger:

1. We use the `timeline-trigger-name` property to give the `<img>` element an identifying name for triggers created on it. This is the same dashed identifier as the trigger name referenced in the `<figcaption>` element's `animation-trigger` property value.

> 2. We use the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} property to create the animation trigger type. Specifying the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function means our trigger type is an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function), which has a default [activation range](#adjusting_the_trigger_activation_range) of `cover`.

Reviewer 2: merge line 36 into here

Author: Used your PR suggestion

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered
img {
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
}
```

The {{domxref("ViewTimeline")}} created by the `view()` function tracks the position of the `<img>` element (which is called the **subject** or the **tracked element** for this purpose) across the block-axis of the nearest parent scroller.

> The triggers are activated and deactivated when the tracked element is scrolled to the start and end of the timeline range respectively, in the block direction, causing the `<figcaption>` animation to play forwards and play backwards. By default, the **activation range** is the range between the point when the tracked element starts to enter the scrollport, and the point when the tracked element completely exits the scrollport.

Reviewer 2: changed this around to define the term and then use it in a sentence. I think it makes it clearer, especially when you can to the active range... originally this was fine, but `active range` was overwhelming, so this edit helps fix that later on.

Author: Updated

> It is possible for the tracked element to be the same element as the animated element; see [Creating the trigger on the same element](#creating_the_trigger_on_the_same_element), later on.

Reviewer 2: it's in 2 paragraphs, so we don't need this. i moved part of this to line 229, and got rid of the link

Author: Updated as per your PR

The example renders like so:

{{embedlivesample("basic-scroll-triggered", "100%", 500)}}

> Note how the caption starts to fade in as soon as any part of the image becomes visible in the scrollport, whether you are moving it in from the bottom or the top. It doesn't fade out again until the entire image has moved out of the scrollport, so by default, you won't see this. If you scroll the image into view again, the caption will fade in again.

Reviewer 2: they'll never, ever see it. The fade out may not have finished, but when they see that it had faded partially out, they're actually seeing it fade back in.

Author: Used some of your PR suggestions. What's there now is fine.

> ## Creating the trigger on the same element

Reviewer 2: let's change "same" to "trigger-using"

Author: No. I don't want to use this terminology, as per a previous comment.

We can define the trigger to be created on the animated element itself. Let's modify the previous example to create the trigger on our animated {{htmlelement("figcaption")}} element rather than the {{htmlelement("img")}} element.

> The HTML is identical to the previous example. The CSS differs only in where the scroll-triggered animation properties are set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The HTML is identical to the previous example. The CSS differs only in where the timeline-trigger properties are set.
```

Author: Changed. I've used `timeline-trigger-*` as per your PR suggestion.

> This time, the {{cssxref("animation")}}, {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}}, {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}}, and {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} properties are all set on the `<figcaption>` element — it will animate when it appears in the scrollport. In the previous example, the `<figcaption>` was the subject and the `<img>` was the tracked element. Now the caption plays both roles.

Reviewer 2: line 215 states the subject and tracked element are the same.
the spec reads `trigger-using` element, without officially calling it that. Let's call it that.

Author: This was a line that you added as part of one of your previous edits. You just got the terminology a bit wrong, which is certainly forgivable, as this stuff is really complicated.

I've updated the line to:

> In the previous example, the `<figcaption>` was the animated element and the `<img>` was the tracked element. Now the caption plays both roles.

I've just looked up "trigger-using" in the spec — it uses the term once, as a description rather than official terminology. I really don't want to rewrite the entire PR to start using this term at this stage. In the interest of getting it published, let's not do this.

I'll go through your PR and grab a few fixes from there, but I'm not including all the changes that use this term. I don't think it's even particularly helpful.

Author: I also cut the trigger-scope section right down, as suggested in your PR. I think that works.

However, I don't want to cut the "Multiple scroll-triggered animations" section, as I think that example is useful.

```css live-sample___different-trigger
figcaption {
  animation: fade-in 1s ease-in both;
  animation-trigger: --t play-forwards play-backwards;
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
}
```

The updated rendering looks like this:

{{embedlivesample("different-trigger", "100%", 500)}}

> In this case, the `<figcaption>` fades into view when it starts to appear in the scrollport.

Reviewer 2: enters, rather than appears, because it's invisible.

Author: updated

## Adjusting the trigger activation range

In the previous examples, the trigger activates (fade-in starts) as soon as the start edge of the tracked element enters the end edge of the scrollport, and deactivates (fade-out starts) when the end edge of the tracked element has exited the start edge of the scrollport. As a result, the fade out is never visible.

This is because the default activation range when using a `view()` `timeline-trigger-source()` is the {{cssxref("timeline-range-name")}} `cover` value.

We can offset the start and end of the activation range using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-start")}} and {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-end")}} properties, respectively, or the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range")}} shorthand to set both values in a single declaration. Each these properties can take as values:

- A {{cssxref("length-percentage")}} value to specify a different point along the default range.
- A {{cssxref("timeline-range-name")}} keyword specifying a named range.
- A `timeline-range-name` and a `<length-percentage>` to specify a certain point along a different range.

> Percentages are relative to the length of the `timeline-range-name` if one is specified, or the timeline represented by `normal` if not. The `normal` value is equivalent to `cover 0% cover 100%` for a [view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#view_progress_timelines) {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}}, and `scroll 0% scroll 100%` for a [scroll progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#scroll_progress_timelines) `timeline-trigger-source`.

Reviewer 2: TMI for this guide.

Author: Updated. I used the suggestion in your PR.

> The following example will cause the trigger to activate within a range between the end of the `entry` range (when the tracked element's end edge crosses the scrollport's end edge) and `70%` of the way through the `exit` range (slightly before the subject's end edge crosses the scrollport's start edge).

Reviewer 2: my suggestions are to switch to 90% and 10% to create two offset values, so there reader has a little bit more to play with and can hopefully grok this better.

We can possibly add a link to `Insetting view progress timelines`, which discusses insetting the animation attachment ranges of scroll-driven animations. If doing so, we can add something like:

```md
To learn more about offsetting the start and end of activation ranges, see [Insetting view progress timelines](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timeline_insets), which discusses the {{cssxref("animation-range")}} property, the sroll-driven animation corallary to  the `timeline-trigger-activation-range` property.
```

Author: Updated as per your PR

```css live-sample___adjust-range
img {
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
  timeline-trigger-activation-range: entry 100% exit 70%;
}
```

The updated rendering looks like this:

{{embedlivesample("adjust-range", "100%", 500)}}

The animation of the `<figcaption>` is now a bit more useful — it only starts to fade into view when the `<img>` has completely entered the scrollport at its end edge, and it starts to fade out when `70%` of the `<img>` has exited the scrollport at its start edge.

## Setting a custom active range

The **active range** is the range within which a trigger will remain activated once activation has occurred. By default, the active range is the same as the activation range, therefore deactivation will occur once the tracked element leaves the activation range.

It is possible to set a different active range using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-active-range-start")}} and {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-active-range-end")}} properties, or the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-active-range")}} shorthand to set both values in a single declaration.

> You might want to do this, for example, if you have an animation that activates only within a small range, but once activated, you want the finished state of the animation to stay applied over a larger range. Only when the tracked element moves out of the active range does the trigger become inactive; after that, you can activate it again by moving the subject back into the activation range.

Reviewer 2: this is confusing to me. The animation-fill-mode should control the finished state, no?

Author: Yeah, this is a bit of a misstep with the wording. I've updated the para to:

> You might want to do this to extend the time an animation has to complete — for example, if you have an animation trigger that activates only within a small range, but once activated, you want it to stay active over a larger range. Only when the tracked element moves out of the active range does the trigger become inactive; after that, you can activate it again by moving the subject back into the activation range.

## The timeline-trigger shorthand

So far, we've written all of our scroll-triggered animation CSS out as a mixture of shorthand and longhand properties. This is cumbersome and wordy, but it helps you to understand each of the values we've set and what they do. However, now you've understood them, let's look at the shortest possible equivalent, which you'll probably write in all your code going forward.

Taking these declarations as an example:

```css
img {
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
  timeline-trigger-activation-range: contain 25% contain 75%;
  timeline-trigger-active-range: entry 0% exit 100%;
}
```

We can rewrite these using the following shorthand:

```css
img {
  timeline-trigger: --t view() contain 25% contain 75% / entry 0% exit 100%;
}
```

> ## Adjusting the animation's action

Reviewer 2: i suggest moving this way up. The forward and backward are being used way earlier. And this is so much easier to understand and more necessary to know that active/activation range. It is one less example of the ` timeline-trigger: --t view() contain;` shorthand, but that is ok.

I also suggested a lot of edits to this... so even if you're not moving it....

Author: I've used some of your edits from the PR, but I disagree with moving this up.

It's important to know, but so is the activation/active range stuff. And I found the effects of the different actions far more annoying to grok, when I was learning this.

---
title: Using CSS scroll-triggered animations
short-title: Scroll-triggered animations
slug: Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers/Using_scroll-triggered_animations
page-type: guide
sidebar: cssref
---

> **CSS scroll-triggered animations** provide a declarative mechanism to trigger [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations) when a scroll trigger occurs, such as the user scrolling an element to a certain scroll offset inside the viewport.

Reviewer 2: Let's use some lay terms to make what it does clearer/easier to understand. 
Let's also move the stuff from the JS note below, that isn't JS, into the content somehow. How about:

```suggestion
A common UI pattern involves triggering animations on a web page when the user scrolls to a certain place in the content, for example to pull in additional UI elements or draw the user's attention to certain details. **CSS scroll-triggered animations** enable defining stroll-based triggers that start and stop [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations). For example, you can define trigger positions on an element within a {{glossary("scroll container")}} that, when the element on which the trigger is applied reaches those positions within the scrollport, it toggles the play state of an animation applied to a completely different element.
```

Author: I've added a few of these details in the concepts section, but I really don't think they should be part of the intro paragraph. That's too much information at that point.

Reviewer 2: How about:

```suggestion
**CSS animation triggers** let you start, pause, or stop [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations) based on how far a user has scrolled an element. An element can be set to trigger animations on itself or even on an element on a different part of the page based on its scroll positions.
```

Reviewer 2: generally, we need to switch the word `viewport` to `scrollport`

This article covers how to use CSS scroll-triggered animations.

> [!NOTE]

> > Scroll-triggered animations sound similar to [CSS scroll-driven animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations), but they are different. Scroll-triggered animations are regular time-based animations that play when a trigger becomes active, for example when an element scrolls to a certain scroll position inside a scrolling container. With scroll-driven animations, the normal time-based animation timeline is replaced by a scroll-based timeline, meaning that the animation progresses forwards and backwards as you scroll towards the start and end of the content.

Reviewer 2: this is important, but should be integrated into the content a bit later when the topic arises, not necessarily as a note.

Reviewer 2: good place for it: under the basic example, which basically looks like a view progress timeline, explain this, and say how with a view progress timeline, the animation is based on position in the scrollport, and here the animation always completes within X seconds, no matter how fast the user scrolls. 

Not only would that help explain the difference, but it would point out what we are looking for in this example. The animation was off the screen for me (the bottom half of the scrollport was out of my viewport) so i didn't really see the animation

Author: Good call; I've moved it underneath the initial example, added a couple more details, and put it under its own heading rather than in a note.

> ## Scroll-triggered animation concepts

Reviewer 2: I have suggested the removal of all the content under this header. We should KEEP the header, and in this section provide an example that demonstrates many of the properties, such as a **repeating** animation on a fixed element that starts when a bar bar with the word "animation trigger" reaches 20% into the scroll container and ends when the bar is 80% through. Then explain what is happening, and that the rest of the guide will demonstrate the features that make this work.

Author: No, I don't want to do that. I like the concepts section, and I think it is important to start with a basic example in this case, as it is pretty complex stuff.

> A very common UI pattern involves triggering animations on a web page when the user scrolls to a certain place in the content, for example to pull in additional UI elements or draw the user's attention to certain details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
moved into intro

Author: Nope, disagree.

> CSS scroll-triggered animations provide a declarative mechanism for creating such effects, providing an alternative to using JavaScript features such as the [Intersection Observer API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API). Depending on which JavaScript mechanism you are currently using, CSS scroll-triggered animations may also be simpler to implement and/or more performant.

Reviewer 2: CSS is always more performant than it's JS implementation of the same feature. 
Let's move this out of content and into a note since it is tangential to the content and will be outdated in 2 years. LIkely in a different section, but not sure which one yet 

```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> CSS scroll-triggered animations provide a declarative mechanism for scroll triggers that used to require JavaScript features such as the [Intersection Observer API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API) or including a JavaScript framework. CSS scroll-triggered animations are more performant, and hopefully simpler to implement.
```

Author: ok, done

## Scroll-triggered animation basics

Let's walk through a basic example to show you how a scroll-triggered animation works.

This example features several paragraphs of content with a {{htmlelement("figure")}} element included in the middle of them — this includes an {{htmlelement("img")}} and a {{htmlelement("figcaption")}}. As the content is scrolled up and down, we will fade the figure into view when it starts to appear inside the viewport, and fade it out again once it has left the viewport.

For the sake of brevity, we are not showing the full HTML source.

> 

Reviewer 2: suggest putting the overview with the intro and the brevity with the HTML.

```suggestion
Let's walk through an example to show you how a scroll-triggered animation works. In this example, as we scroll the content up and down, a figure will fade into view when it starts to appear inside the viewport. It will fade it out once it has left the viewport, so will fade into view whether it enters the viewport from the block start or block end edge.

This example features several paragraphs of content with a {{htmlelement("figure")}} element included in the middle of them — this includes an {{htmlelement("img")}} and a {{htmlelement("figcaption")}}. For the sake of brevity, we are not showing the full HTML source.

```
(This is STA basics, but not a "basic" example... as there is a lot going on, so don't want people to feel like "basics" are a lot, so may think the rest will be too much.

Author: done

  font-size: 1.3rem;
}

figure {
  display: block;
  margin: 0 auto;
  max-width: 60%;
  position: relative;
}

img {
  max-width: 100%;
  border: 3px solid black;
}

h1 {
  font-size: 3rem;
}

p {
  line-height: 1.5;
}

figcaption {
  font-size: 1rem;
  padding: 5px;
  position: absolute;
  bottom: 15px;
  right: -100px;
  border: 3px solid black;
  background: white;
}
```

```css hidden live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___different-trigger live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range live-sample___play-once live-sample___trigger-scope live-sample___multiple-triggers
@supports not (timeline-trigger-name: --t) {
  body::before {
    font-family: sans-serif;
    font-size: 1.3rem;
    content: "Your browser does not support scroll-triggered animations.";
    background-color: wheat;
    position: fixed;
    left: 0;
    right: 0;
    top: 40%;
    text-align: center;
    padding: 1rem 0;
    z-index: 1;
  }
}
```

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered
figure {
  animation: fade-in 1s ease-in both;
  animation-trigger: --t play-forwards play-backwards;

  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
}
```

Walking through this:

> - We first apply an {{cssxref("animation")}} to the element we want to animate (the {{htmlelement("figure")}}). On its own, this would cause the `<figure>` to fade into view as soon as the page loads.

Reviewer 2: this is a list of steps, so let's remove first, next, etc., language.
also, they're individual items, so kind of need to stand alone.
```suggestion
- We apply an {{cssxref("animation")}} to the element we want to animate (the {{htmlelement("figure")}}). By itself, without added triggers, this would cause the `<figure>` to fade into view as soon as the page loads.
```

Author: OK, first/next language removed. I've also incorporated your suggestion and changed the top-level bullets to numbered bullets.

- To stop this happening, we set an {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}} value on the animated element. This includes:
  - A {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}, `--t`, which is equal to the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}} of the element that will create the animation trigger.

>   - Two {{cssxref("&lt;animation-action>")}} values, which specify how the animation should behave when the trigger is **activated** (the `<figure>` element's animation plays forwards) and **deactivated** (the `<figure>` element's animation plays backwards).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  To delay the start of the animation until the element is scrolled into view, we set an {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}} value on the animated element defining which element will provide the triggers, and what those triggers are. This includes:
  - The {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}, `--t`, which is the name of the trigger. This is equal to the value of the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}} property set on the element that will create the animation trigger.
  - Two {{cssxref("&lt;animation-action>")}} values, which specify how the animation should behave when the trigger is **activated** and **deactivated**, respectively. We set the `<figure>` element's animation to play forward, maintaining the named animation's `to` keyframe's state  when activated, and to play backward, maintaining the named animation's `from` keyframe state when deactivated.
```

Author: updated

> - Next, we set the `timeline-trigger-name` property with a value of `--t` to specify that, not only is the `<figure>` element the element that will be animated, it will also have an identifying name for triggers created on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We set the `timeline-trigger-name` property with a value of `--t` to specify that, not only is the `<figure>` element the element that will be animated, it will also have an identifying name for triggers created on it.
```

Author: Updated

> - Finally, we need to create the animation trigger; this is done using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} property. In this case, we a specify the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function, which creates an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) to control triggering the animation. The resulting {{domxref("ViewTimeline")}} tracks the position of the `<figure>` element (which is called the **subject** or the **tracked element** for this purpose) across the block-axis of the nearest parent scroller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We create the animation trigger using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} property, specifying the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function. This creates an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) to control the animation triggers.
```

The "The resulting {{domxref("ViewTimeline")}} tracks the position of the `<figure>` element (which is called the **subject** or the **tracked element** for this purpose) across the block-axis of the nearest parent scroller." is accurate but overwhelming here. let's add it later the next time it could be appropriate..

This is a good place to put the note that we removed in the intro comparing triggered v. scroll driven

Author: updated

---

> title: Using CSS scroll-triggered animations

Reviewer 2: intentional?
```
Using CSS animation triggers
```

Author: See previous comment about this.

short-title: Scroll-triggered animations
slug: Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers/Using_scroll-triggered_animations
page-type: guide
sidebar: cssref
---

**CSS scroll-triggered animations** provide a declarative mechanism to trigger [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations) when a scroll trigger occurs, such as the user scrolling an element to a certain scroll offset inside the viewport.

This article covers how to use CSS scroll-triggered animations.

## Scroll-triggered animation concepts

A very common UI pattern involves triggering animations on a web page when the user scrolls to a certain place in the content, for example to pull in additional UI elements or draw the user's attention to certain details.

> **CSS scroll-triggered animations** enable defining scroll-based triggers that start and stop [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations). For example, you can define trigger positions on an element within a {{glossary("scroll container")}} so that, when the element on which the trigger is applied reaches those positions within the scrollport, it toggles the play state of an animation applied to that element, or a completely different one.

Reviewer 2: moved an edited version to the intro. 
only bold at first occurence
animation triggers or scroll-triggered animations? (everywhere)

Author: I've removed the bolding, but I've kept the heading, as I like having it as a separate concepts section, and not part of the intro (intro can get too long).

It should really be "scroll-triggered animations" in this case, as "animation triggers" also includes event-triggered animations, which haven't yet been implemented anywhere, and would be covered in a separate guide.

> [!NOTE]

> > Scroll-triggered animations also provide an alternative to using JavaScript features such as the [Intersection Observer API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API) or frameworks to create scroll triggers. CSS scroll-triggered animations are more performant, and arguably simpler to implement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Scroll-triggered animations provide an alternative to using JavaScript features such as the [Intersection Observer API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API) or frameworks to create scroll triggers. CSS scroll-triggered animations are more performant and, arguably, simpler to implement.
```

Author: updated

## Scroll-triggered animation basics

> Let's walk through a basic example to show you how a scroll-triggered animation works. As the content is scrolled up and down, a figure caption will fade into view when its associated image starts to appear inside the viewport, and fade out again once the image has left the viewport.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's walk through a basic example to show you how a scroll-triggered animation works. As an overflowing block of content is scrolled up and down, a caption will fade into view when its associated image starts to appear inside the scrollport, and fade out once the image has left the scrollport.
```

we can change to "caption" throughout, as there's no other caption

Author: Mostly used as-is. 

I've replaced "figure caption" with "caption" throughout, as suggested.

This example features several paragraphs of content with a {{htmlelement("figure")}} element included in the middle of them — this includes an {{htmlelement("img")}} and a {{htmlelement("figcaption")}}. For the sake of brevity, we are not showing the full HTML source.

```html
...

<p>...</p>

<figure>
  <img
    src="jungle-coast.jpg"

>     class="animation"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
not used

Author: Good spot. It used to be used, but not anymore. Removed throughout.

  opportunities for adventurous hiking and exploring scenic vistas, including
  the iconic Walsh's Pyramid near Gordonvale.
</p>
```

We'll start by defining {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} for the `fade-in` animation we'll apply to our `<figcaption>`.

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___different-trigger live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range live-sample___play-once
@keyframes fade-in {
  from {
    opacity: 0;
  }

  to {
    opacity: 1;
  }
}
```

The following two rulesets provide everything you need to set up a scroll-triggered animation.

```css hidden live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___different-trigger live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range live-sample___play-once
body {
  width: 80%;
  margin: 0 auto;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  font-size: 1.3rem;
}

figure {
  display: block;
  margin: 0 auto;
  max-width: 60%;
  position: relative;
}

img {
  max-width: 100%;
  border: 3px solid black;
}

h1 {
  font-size: 3rem;
}

p {
  line-height: 1.5;
}

figcaption {
  font-size: 1rem;
  padding: 5px;
  position: absolute;
  bottom: 15px;

>   right: -100px;

Reviewer 2: This animation can be missed if the user doesn't scroll quickly, as it's at the bottom of the image. How about if we do `top: 0; left: 30px;` instead. 

I would have suggested `-20px`, but that requires changing the prose below about not seeing it fade out . To keep the current text, we can't hang the figcaption off the top or bottom, but right now, the animation can be missed when scrolling in.

Author: I went for `top: 5px; left: 5px;` instead, as it looks a bit better, and still fixes this issue.

  border: 3px solid black;
  background: white;
}
```

> The first ruleset has the following features:

Reviewer 2: Let's point out that the first ruleset defines the animation and the second the triggers, maybe:

```suggestion
The first ruleset sets the animation properties and has the following features:
```

Author: Yeah, I like this approach. I updated this to simply:

> The first ruleset sets the animation properties:

1. We apply an {{cssxref("animation")}} to the element we want to animate (the {{htmlelement("figcaption")}}). By itself, without triggers, this would cause the `<figcaption>` to fade into view as soon as the page loads.
2. To delay the start of the animation until the {{htmlelement("img")}} element is scrolled into view, we set an {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}} value on the animated element defining which element will provide the triggers, and what those triggers are. This includes:
   - A {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}, `--t`, which is the name of the trigger. This is equal to the value of the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}} property set on the element that will create the animation trigger (the `<img>`, as you will see below).

>    - Two {{cssxref("&lt;animation-action>")}} values, which specify how the animation should behave when the trigger is **activated** and **deactivated**, respectively. When the trigger is activated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play forwards. When the trigger is deactivated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play backwards.

Reviewer 2: define activated and deactivated here, or link the terms to their definitions later on

Author: Brief definitions added, with links to more information.

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range
figcaption {
  animation: fade-in 1s ease-in both;
  animation-trigger: --t play-forwards play-backwards;
}
```

> Walking through the second ruleset:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second ruleset sets up the triggers for the preceding animation:
```
or something like that

Author: updated

> 1. We set the `<img>` element's `timeline-trigger-name` property to a value of `--t` to give it an identifying name for triggers created on it. This trigger name is referenced in the `<figcaption>` element's `animation-trigger` property value, to specify that its animation will be triggered by the `<img>` element's triggers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. We set the `<img>` element's `timeline-trigger-name` property to a value of `--t` to give it an identifying name for triggers created on it. This is the same dashed identifier as the trigger name referenced in the `<figcaption>` element's `animation-trigger` property value. 
```
if you want to keep the last part, i wrote "It specifies that the `<img>` element is the animation trigger for all animations with a `animation-trigger` value set to `--t`.", but that also too complicated.

Author: This suggestion works well. I wanted to keep some kind of sentence that explains the association. I ened up with this overall bullet:

> 1. We set the `<img>` element's `timeline-trigger-name` property to a value of `--t` to give it an identifying name for triggers created on it. This is the same dashed identifier as the trigger name referenced in the `<figcaption>` element's `animation-trigger` property value. This means that the `<figcaption>` element's animation will be triggered by the `<img>` element's trigger.

> 2. We create the animation trigger using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} property, specifying the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function. This creates an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) to control the animation triggers. The resulting {{domxref("ViewTimeline")}} tracks the position of the `<img>` element (which is called the **subject** or the **tracked element** for this purpose) across the block-axis of the nearest parent scroller.

Reviewer 2: This might be a bit overwhelming for an intro example, how about:

```suggestion
2. We create the type of animation trigger using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} property. By specifying the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function, our trigger type is an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function), meaning the element scrolling into and out of view in the block direction will trigger `--t` triggered animations.
```
then we can move the omitted stuff from this paragraph and the next to an explanation after the result... i think a reader will better understand this after they see it.

Author: This update looks good. Added.

I have moved the other info to after the live example and simplified it a bit as well. Given that we now link to the activation and active range definitions, I don't think we need that stuff repeated there as well.

   The trigger is activated and deactivated when the tracked element is scrolled to certain positions inside the scrollport. By default, activation occurs when the tracked element starts to enter the viewport, and deactivation occurs when the tracked element completely exits the viewport. The scroll offset range inside which the trigger is activated is called the **activation range**, and the scroll offset range inside which the trigger stays active (and deactivates when it leaves) is called the **active range**. You'll learn about adjusting these ranges later on, starting with [Adjusting the trigger activation range](#adjusting_the_trigger_activation_range).

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered
img {
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> It is possible for the tracked element to be the same element as the animated element; see [Creating the trigger on the same element](#creating_the_trigger_on_the_same_element), later on.

> The above example renders like so:

Reviewer 2: please avoid using above and below.

Author: sure, replaced.

{{embedlivesample("basic-scroll-triggered", "100%", 500)}}

> Note how the figure caption starts to fade in as soon as any part of the image becomes visible in the viewport, whether you are moving it in from the bottom or the top. It doesn't fade out again until the entire image has moved out of the viewport, so by default, you won't see this.

Reviewer 2: this is where we say we can't see it (referenced above in change css code to put it at the top of the image so it is more likely to be seen when scrolling down.

Author: Yeah. I think the prose still works as-is.

---
title: Using CSS scroll-triggered animations
short-title: Scroll-triggered animations
slug: Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers/Using_scroll-triggered_animations
page-type: guide
sidebar: cssref
---

> **CSS scroll-triggered animations** provide a declarative mechanism to trigger (for example, start, pause, or stop) [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations) when the user scrolls an element to a specified offset inside a scrollport.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**CSS scroll-triggered animations** provide a declarative mechanism to trigger (for example, start, pause, or stop) {{domxref("documentTimeline")}}-based [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations) when the user scrolls an element to a specified offset inside a scrollport.
```

important to say upfront... you may have a better place or way to say it in the intro paragraphs

Author: I think here is a good place. Added.

This article covers how to use CSS scroll-triggered animations.

## Scroll-triggered animation concepts

A very common UI pattern involves triggering animations on a web page when the user scrolls to a certain place in the content, for example to pull in additional UI elements or draw the user's attention to certain details.

CSS scroll-triggered animations enable defining scroll-based triggers that start and stop [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations). For example, you can define trigger positions on an element within a {{glossary("scroll container")}} so that, when the element on which the trigger is applied reaches those positions within the scrollport, it toggles the play state of an animation applied to that element, or a completely different one.

> [!NOTE]
> Scroll-triggered animations provide an alternative to using JavaScript features such as the [Intersection Observer API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API) or frameworks to create scroll triggers. CSS scroll-triggered animations are more performant and, arguably, simpler to implement.

## Scroll-triggered animation basics

> Let's walk through a basic example to show you how a scroll-triggered animation works. As a block of content is scrolled up and down, a caption will fade into view when its associated image starts to appear inside the scrollport, and fade out again once the image has left the scrollport.

Reviewer 2: Say what we are going to do and include the keyterms. a bullet point list of suggestion to include in the overview intro...
- A scroll triggered animation is... 
- In this example, the trigger is ... 
- ... The trigger is created on ....
- The @keyframe animation is a fade in effect. The caption is animated element, the element on which the animation is applied 
-  The triggers are applied to the image. The trigger is activated when XXX and does yyy. The trigger is deactivated when zzz.
- This is a basic example, so it isn't the exact effect we want, but it will get us started, and we'll hone it as we learn more features as we progress through the guide.

Author: OK, added the info here.

  the iconic Walsh's Pyramid near Gordonvale.
</p>
```

We'll start by defining {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} for the `fade-in` animation we'll apply to our `<figcaption>`.

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___different-trigger live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range live-sample___play-once
@keyframes fade-in {
  from {
    opacity: 0;
  }

  to {
    opacity: 1;
  }
}
```

The following two rulesets provide everything you need to set up a scroll-triggered animation.

```css hidden live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___different-trigger live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range live-sample___play-once
body {
  width: 80%;
  margin: 0 auto;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  font-size: 1.3rem;
}

figure {
  display: block;
  margin: 0 auto;
  max-width: 60%;
  position: relative;
}

img {
  max-width: 100%;
  border: 3px solid black;
}

h1 {
  font-size: 3rem;
}

p {
  line-height: 1.5;
}

figcaption {
  font-size: 1rem;
  padding: 5px;
  position: absolute;
  top: 5px;
  left: 5px;
  border: 3px solid black;
  background: white;
}
```

> The first ruleset sets the animation properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first ruleset applies the animation properties to the element we are animating:
```

used applies to not say "set sets"
identifies the role of the element in the intro (can can be removed from 1)

same suggestion for the triggering element

Author: done and done

   - A {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}, `--t`, which is the name of the trigger. This is equal to the value of the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}} property set on the element that will create the animation trigger (the `<img>`, as you will see later).
   - Two {{cssxref("&lt;animation-action>")}} values, which specify how the animation should behave when the trigger is **activated** (enters the [activation range](#adjusting_the_trigger_activation_range)) and **deactivated** (exits the activation range, or [active range](#setting_a_custom_active_range) if one is set), respectively. When the trigger is activated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play forwards. When the trigger is deactivated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play backwards.

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range
figcaption {
  animation: fade-in 1s ease-in both;
  animation-trigger: --t play-forwards play-backwards;
}
```

The second ruleset sets up the triggers for the preceding animation:

> 1. We set the `<img>` element's `timeline-trigger-name` property to a value of `--t` to give it an identifying name for triggers created on it. This is the same dashed identifier as the trigger name referenced in the `<figcaption>` element's `animation-trigger` property value. This means that the `<figcaption>` element's animation will be triggered by the `<img>` element's trigger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. We set the `<img>` element's `timeline-trigger-name` property to a value of `--t` to give it an identifying name for triggers created on it. This is the same dashed identifier as the trigger name referenced in the `<figcaption>` element's `animation-trigger` property value. This means that the `<figcaption>` element's animation triggered by the `<img>` element's trigger's activation and deactivation .
```

Author: updated

> 2. We create the type of animation trigger using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} property. Specifying the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function means our trigger type is an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function), therefore the element scrolling into and out of view in the block direction will trigger `--t` triggered animations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. We create the type of animation trigger using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} property. Specifying the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function means our trigger type is an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function), therefore the element scrolling into and out of view in the block direction will trigger triggered animations named `--t`.
```
might want to add "note this is a name and not a custom element, so `var()` is not needed" here or somewhere on the page.

Author: This isn't quite right — you name the trigger, not the animation. I've updated it to:

> ...will trigger elements that select `--t` as their animation trigger.

I don't want to muddy the waters by talking about not needing `var()` here. I actually don't think it's necessary to mention this. We clearly say that these are dashed idents above, and we link the `<dashed-ident>` ref page for those who want to find out more.

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered
img {
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> It is possible for the tracked element to be the same element as the animated element; see [Creating the trigger on the same element](#creating_the_trigger_on_the_same_element), later on.

The example renders like so:

{{embedlivesample("basic-scroll-triggered", "100%", 500)}}

> Note how the caption starts to fade in as soon as any part of the image becomes visible in the scrollport, whether you are moving it in from the bottom or the top. It doesn't fade out again until the entire image has moved out of the scrollport, so by default, you won't see this.

Reviewer 2: not sure if you want to add that if they scrolled it out the top and then back into view it fades in again because it had faded out.

Author: Ok. I've added a sentence:

> If you scroll the image into view again, the caption will fade in again.

The {{domxref("ViewTimeline")}} created by the `view()` function tracks the position of the `<img>` element (which is called the **subject** or the **tracked element** for this purpose) across the block-axis of the nearest parent scroller.

> The triggers are activated and deactivated when the tracked element is scrolled to certain positions inside the scrollport, causing the `<figcaption>` to animate. By default, activation occurs when the tracked element starts to enter the scrollport, and deactivation occurs when the tracked element completely exits the scrollport.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The triggers are activated and deactivated when the tracked element is scrolled to certain the start and end of the timeline range, causing the `<figcaption>` to animate. By default, the animation range start is the point when the tracked element starts to enter the scrollport, and the animation range end is the point when the tracked element completely exits the scrollport. These are the activation and deactivation points, respectively.
```
I think activation is always at animation-range-start and deactivation is at animation-range-end. The range can change, where along the range can not.

Author: Yeah, this is useful. Updated.

### Scroll-triggered versus scroll-driven animations

Scroll-triggered animations are similar to [CSS scroll-driven animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations), but they are different:

- As demonstrated earlier, scroll-triggered animations are regular time-based animations that play when a trigger becomes active; they always complete in the same amount of time, regardless of how fast the user scrolls.
- With scroll-driven animations, the normal time-based animation timeline is replaced by a scroll-based timeline, meaning that the animation progresses forwards and backwards as you scroll towards the start and end of the content, with a faster scrolling speed resulting in a faster animation.

## Different types of trigger source

> The `timeline-trigger-source` property can take various different value types:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `timeline-trigger-source` property accepts as its value an [animation-timeline]() of `scroll()`, `view()`, an {{cssxref("ident")}}, `auto`, or `none`, with `none` removing the timeline trigger.
```
only one value type: animation-timeline. A value type is like length, percentage, color. This accepts none, functions, or idents. Fix this everywhere 
added all the values since we expand on the functions

Author: We don't need to list all the values here when we list them immediately below in the bullets. I've changed "value types" to "values"; the sentence now reads:

> The `timeline-trigger-source` can be specified using various values, most commonly:

- A [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/animation-timeline/view) function referencing an anonymous view progress timeline trigger. This is the nearest scrolling ancestor of the element that creates the trigger. As shown earlier, this allows you to create functionality whereby an element will start animating when it (or another element) reaches a certain scroll offset in the scrollport, and stop animating (or some other action) when it (or another element) reaches a different scroll offset.
- A [`scroll()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/animation-timeline/scroll) function referencing an anonymous scroll progress timeline trigger. This can be the root element or nearest scroller of the element that creates the trigger, or the element itself. This allows you to create functionality whereby an element will start animating when it (or another element) reaches an absolute scroll offset relative to the viewport, and stop animation (or some other action) when it (or another element) reaches a different position in the viewport. For example:
  ```css
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: scroll();

>   timeline-trigger-activation-range: 600px;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/animation-timeline/view) function referencing an [anonymous view progress timeline](link to guide) trigger. This is the nearest scrolling ancestor of the element that creates the trigger. As shown earlier, this allows you to create functionality whereby an element animation trigger will be activated (wherein it will start animating or some other action) when the trigger, which may be the animated element itself, reaches a certain scroll trigger-activation-range offset in the scrollport, and deactivated (wherein it will stop animating or some other action) when it (or another element) reaches a different scroll offset.

[put example code here too]

- A [`scroll()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/animation-timeline/scroll) function referencing an anonymous scroll progress timeline trigger. This can be the element itself, the nearest scroller of the element that creates the trigger, or the root element. This allows you to create functionality whereby an element will start animating when the trigger element reaches an absolute offset relative to the named trigger activation range (as set by the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-start")}}, which defaults to `scroll 0%`) and stop the trigger element reaches a different the end of the trigger activation range (as set by the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-end")}}, which defaults to `scroll 100%`) . For example, this trigger will activate when the tracked element is scrolled up by `600px` and will deactivate when it is scrolled up `100%`. The `scroll` named timeline range represents the full range of the scroll container.

  ```css
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: scroll();
  timeline-trigger-activation-range: 600px;
```

- suggestions in first paragraph
- space needed around all the code blocks
- did not edit the middle paragraph, but edits from first p apply the the second and not sure what an "absolute scroll offset" is
- still finding viewports. i think we almost always want scrollport.

## important question:

- By default, scroll() references the nearest ancestor scroll container. With triggers, is this still the case, or doesn't it reference the nearest one with a trigger name?

Author: > suggestions in first paragraph

I've used some of these (such as adding a `view()` example), but left most of them alone. Your writing was more precise, but made the sentence too complex and hard to read. I think mine is not incorrect, and provides enough description to be useful, which is easier to understand. 

> space needed around all the code blocks

The code blocks have space around them.

> did not edit the middle paragraph, but edits from first p apply the the second and not sure what an "absolute scroll offset" is

I think @bramus explained this to me a while ago. Basically, it means that the animation activates when the tracked element has scrolled an arbitrary amount of distance, not relative to a timeline range. I've added an explanation in parentheses.

> still finding viewports. i think we almost always want scrollport.

Yeah, I got confused here. I've removed them all now, and just talked about (scroll) offsets.

> By default, scroll() references the nearest ancestor scroll container. With triggers, is this still the case, or doesn't it reference the nearest one with a trigger name?

No. A trigger name is only needed when using a named view/scroll progress timeline.

Reviewer: What “absolute” means here is that it uses a absolute unit of measurement (`600px`) instead of a relative one (the typical percentage folks use here). Perhaps there is a better term to use here.

Because `animation-range: 600px` is declared as the shorthand, that results in a `animation-range-start` of `600px` and a `animation-range-end` of `normal` (which practically speaking becomes `scroll 100%`).

The `animation-range-start: 600px` can be rewritten as `animation-range-start: scroll 600px` here, which means “600px into the scroll range”.

I hope this clarifies things a bit.

Author: Ah, so that's where the new `scroll` value is useful. I was wondering about that. Another one for a future PR ;-)

  ```
  See [Basic scroll progress timeline source usage](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/timeline-trigger-source#basic_scroll_progress_timeline_source_usage) for a working example.

> - A {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}} referencing a named view- or scroll-progress timeline. This references a {{cssxref("view-timeline-name")}} or {{cssxref("scroll-timeline-name")}} set on the trigger. This involves setting a {{cssxref("view-timeline-name")}} on the element that creates the trigger, and then referring to that name in the value of the `timeline-trigger-source` property, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

  See the [`timeline-trigger-source` example](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/timeline-trigger-source#basic_scroll_progress_timeline_source_usage).
  
- A {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}} referencing a [named view-timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#named_view_progress_timeline) or [named scroll-progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#named_scroll_progress_timelines). This references a {{cssxref("view-timeline-name")}} or {{cssxref("scroll-timeline-name")}} set on the trigger. This involves setting a {{cssxref("view-timeline-name")}} on the element that creates the trigger, and then referring to that name in the value of the `timeline-trigger-source` property, for example:

```

Author: Updated. I ended up putting the example reference in a note to improve the spacing/separation.

  ```css
  view-timeline-name: --my-timeline;
  timeline-trigger-source: --my-timeline;
  ```

> Scroll progress timelines are arguably not as useful for scroll-triggered animations as view progress timelines. You are more likely to want an animation to start at an scroll offset relative to the scrollport, not the entire viewport, where the animation may well trigger off screen on smaller screens.

Reviewer 2: the scroll() is not the entire viewport. it can be. but isn't. you can include a named range in the activation range, so not sure what this actually means.

Author: I've removed the viewport reference, updating this so that (I'm hoping) it now makes sense.

Author: I've also done more testing, and:

Setting no activation range isn't useful at all. The trigger is activated immediately. Setting a named activation range isn't useful either. The named ranges are ignored, and you get the same effect.

Setting ranges like this is useful; these behave how you'd expect:

```css
/* activate 10% of the way down the scrollbar, deactivate at 75% */
timeline-trigger-activation-range: 10% 75%;

/* Active after 200px of scrolling, deactivate at 1000px */
timeline-trigger-activation-range: 200px 1000px;
```

When setting named ranges and length percentages, the names seem to be ignored, and the length percentage values behave as expected. The following two declarations behave the same as the first one above.

```css
timeline-trigger-activation-range: cover 10% contain 75%;
timeline-trigger-activation-range: entry 10% exit 75%;
```

This could open another can of worms, so in the interest of getting this thing out the door, I would like to gloss over it for now, and maybe follow up in a later PR if needed.

Again, paging @bramus to see if he has any thoughts.

---
title: Using CSS scroll-triggered animations
short-title: Scroll-triggered animations
slug: Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers/Using_scroll-triggered_animations
page-type: guide
sidebar: cssref
---

> **CSS scroll-triggered animations** provide a declarative mechanism to trigger (for example, start, pause, or stop) {{domxref("DocumentTimeline")}}-based [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations) when the user scrolls an element to a specified offset inside a scrollport.

Reviewer 2: the module is "animation triggers" so we should just bold the name we're using, and say "are" (how a starts) instead of "provide" (which the module does) ....
Alternatively, to keep the module name....
```
**CSS triggered animations** provide a declarative mechanism to trigger....
```

That said, i think starting with slighly more lay terms might be easier for readers to understand...
```suggestion
CSS **scroll-triggered animations** are a declarative mechanism of starting, pausing, resetting, or even reversing an element's {{domxref("DocumentTimeline")}}-based [CSS keyframe animation](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations) when the visibility or scroll position a triggering element within a scrollport.
```

Author: OK, updated, with some tweaks because the last bit of the sentence makes no sense.

> This article covers how to use CSS scroll-triggered animations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This article covers how to create CSS scroll-triggered animations.
```

## Scroll-triggered animation concepts

> A very common UI pattern involves triggering animations on a web page when the user scrolls to a certain place in the content, for example to pull in additional UI elements or draw the user's attention to certain details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Triggering animations when the user scrolls to a certain place in the content to pull in additional UI elements or draw the user's attention to certain details is a common UI pattern.
```

Author: I've removed "very", but I don't want to restructure the sentence like this because the UI pattern should be the focus of the sentence.

> CSS scroll-triggered animations enable defining scroll-based triggers that start and stop [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations). For example, you can define trigger positions inside a {{glossary("scroll container")}} so that, when a tracked element reaches those positions within the scrollport, it toggles the play state of an animation applied to that element, or a completely different one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CSS scroll-triggered animations enable defining scroll-based triggers that start and stop regular [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations). For example, you can define trigger positions inside a {{glossary("scroll container")}} so that, when a tracked element reaches those positions within the scrollport, they toggle the play state of an animation applied to that element, or a completely different one.
```
the "position**s**" toggle the play state

> [!NOTE]

> > Scroll-triggered animations provide an alternative to using JavaScript features such as the [Intersection Observer API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API) or frameworks to create scroll triggers. CSS scroll-triggered animations are more performant and, arguably, simpler to implement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Scroll-triggered animations provide an alternative to using JavaScript features — such as frameworks or the [Intersection Observer API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API) — to trigger animations on scroll. CSS scroll-triggered animations are more performant and, arguably, simpler to implement.
```

- A {{htmlelement("figcaption")}} element has a {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animation set on it: a fade-in effect. We set the `<figcaption>` element's animation trigger to the trigger set on the `<img>` element, and we specify that we want the animation to play forwards when the trigger is activated (the `<img>` enters the timeline range), and play in reverse when the trigger is deactivated (the `<img>` leaves the timeline range).
- The result is that, as the page content is scrolled up and down, the `<figcaption>` will fade into view when the `<img>` starts to appear inside the scrollport, and fade out again once the `<img>` has left the scrollport. This is a basic example, and doesn't create the effect we want, but we'll start here and then improve it as we learn about more features later in the guide.

> This example features several paragraphs of content with a {{htmlelement("figure")}} element included in the middle of them, which contains the `<img>` and `<figcaption>`. For the sake of brevity, we are not showing the full HTML source.

Reviewer 2: Adding the terms we will be using over and over again.
simplifying for this 'intro', 
i think this suggestion covers it all, but if i pulled something out, we can add some of the more complex stuff later on.
```suggestion
Let's walk through a basic example to show you how a scroll-triggered animation works. An image caption will fade in and out when the image it is captioning is scrolled into and out of view. In this case:

- The {{htmlelement("figcaption")}} element has a {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animation set on it: a fade-in effect. This animation is the _triggered animation_.
- We will specify that the animation should play forwards when the trigger is _activated_, fading the caption in, and play in reverse, fading the caption out, when the trigger is _deactivated_. These are the _animation actions_.
- The _animation triggers_ are defined on the `<img>` element. The activation is triggered when the `<img>` starts entering the scrollport and the deactivation occurs when the `<img>` fully exits the viewport, meaning the full viewport is the _timeline range_.
- For now, the [timeline range](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timeline_insets) will default to `cover`, the timeline range for [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) created using the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function, which is what we'll set on the {{htmlelement("img")}} element.

As the content is scrolled up and down, the caption's animation will start as soon as the `<img>` begins to appear inside the scrollport, with the animation reversing when the `<img>` exits the scrollport. This basic example doesn't create the effect we want, but we'll start here and improve it as we learn about more features.

The HTML features several paragraphs of content with a {{htmlelement("figure")}} element included in the middle of them, which contains the `<img>` and `<figcaption>`. For the sake of brevity, we are not showing the full source.
```

Author: Most of this is pretty decent. I've basically used it all, with a few tweaks.

  life, including colorful coral formations, tropical fish, and sea turtles.
</p>

<p>
  Lastly, the surrounding countryside is home to an impressive array of national
  parks and mountains. Barron Gorge National Park, for instance, showcases
  rugged terrain, deep gorges, and thundering waterfalls.
</p>
<p>
  You can embark on hiking trails that lead to breathtaking viewpoints, offering
  panoramic vistas of the surrounding rainforest-clad mountains and valleys.
  Further west, the towering peaks of the Great Dividing Range present
  opportunities for adventurous hiking and exploring scenic vistas, including
  the iconic Walsh's Pyramid near Gordonvale.
</p>
```

We'll start by defining {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} for the `fade-in` animation we'll apply to our `<figcaption>`.

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___different-trigger live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range live-sample___play-once
@keyframes fade-in {
  from {
    opacity: 0;
  }

  to {
    opacity: 1;
  }
}
```

The following two rulesets provide everything you need to set up a scroll-triggered animation.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
moved down (to be right before the content it references)

Author: I actually think it isn't needed, as the rulesets each have their own intro sentence anyway. removed.

1. We apply an {{cssxref("animation")}} to the `<figcaption>`. By itself, without triggers, this would cause the `<figcaption>` to fade into view as soon as the page loads.
2. To delay the start of the animation until the {{htmlelement("img")}} element is scrolled into view, we set an {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}} value on the `<figcaption>` defining which element will provide the triggers, and what those triggers are. This includes:
   - A {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}, `--t`, which is the name of the trigger. As you will see later, this is equal to the value of the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}} property set on the `<img>` element.
   - Two {{cssxref("&lt;animation-action>")}} values, which specify how the animation should behave when the trigger is **activated** (enters the [activation range](#adjusting_the_trigger_activation_range)) and **deactivated** (exits the activation range, or [active range](#setting_a_custom_active_range) if one is set), respectively. When the trigger is activated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play forwards. When the trigger is deactivated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play backwards.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a scroll-triggered animation, we need to apply animation properties to the element we want to animate and trigger properties to the element creating the animation trigger. The following two rulesets provide everything we need.

The first ruleset applies the animation and an animation trigger, along with the animation actions to the {{htmlelement("figcaption")}} element:

1. We use the {{cssxref("animation")}} shorthand to apply the `fade-in` animation to `<figcaption>`. By itself, without triggers, this would cause the `<figcaption>` to fade into view as soon as the page loads.
2. We use the {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}} property to define which element will provide the triggers, and what those triggers actions to delay the start of the animation until the {{htmlelement("img")}} element is scrolled into view. The property value components include:
   - A {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}, `--t`, which is the identifier set as the value of the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}} property set on the triggering element.
   - Two {{cssxref("&lt;animation-action>")}} values, which specify how the animation should behave when the trigger is activated and deactivated. When the trigger is activated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play forwards. When the trigger is deactivated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play backwards.

```

Reviewer 2: you mention active range here, but i don't know what it is. i think we can omit it here, and introduce it when talked about.

Author: added

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered live-sample___adjust-range live-sample___set-active-range
figcaption {
  animation: fade-in 1s ease-in both;
  animation-trigger: --t play-forwards play-backwards;
}
```

The second ruleset sets up the triggers for the preceding animation on the `<img>` element:

1. We set the `<img>` element's `timeline-trigger-name` property to a value of `--t` to give it an identifying name for triggers created on it. This is the same dashed identifier as the trigger name referenced in the `<figcaption>` element's `animation-trigger` property value.
2. We create the type of animation trigger using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} property. Specifying the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function means our trigger type is an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function).

> 3. As a result, the `<img>` element scrolling into and out of view in the block direction will trigger elements that select `--t` as their animation trigger: in this case, the `<figcaption>` element.

Reviewer 2: in scroll driven animations, the outsets are on animation-* properties, with triggers, they're on `timeline-trigger-*` so i think we should talk about the activation range when talking about the triggering element rather than the animating element, so moved the range stuff to here.

Started each one with "we use {{prop}}"  so reader knows exactly what we're referencing immediately

```suggestion
The second ruleset creates the animation trigger:

1. We use the `timeline-trigger-name` property to give the `<img>` element an identifying name for triggers created on it. This is the same dashed identifier as the trigger name referenced in the `<figcaption>` element's `animation-trigger` property value.
2. We use the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} property to create the animation trigger type. Specifying the [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) function means our trigger type is an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function), which has a default [activation range](#adjusting_the_trigger_activation_range) of `cover`. Our trigger will activate when the trigger enters the scrollport  and *deactivate when it this [active range](#setting_a_custom_active_range).
```

Author: I've largely used this, but not the "and *deactivate when it this [active range](#setting_a_custom_active_range)." bit, as it makes no sense.

```css live-sample___basic-scroll-triggered
img {
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
}
```

> [!NOTE]

> > It is possible for the tracked element to be the same element as the animated element; see [Creating the trigger on the same element](#creating_the_trigger_on_the_same_element), later on.

Reviewer 2: Combined point 3, which didn't reference a line, with the note, so it doesn't need to be a note.
```suggestion
Now, the `<img>` element scrolling into and out of view in the block direction will trigger elements that select `--t` as their animation trigger: in this case, the `<figcaption>` element. It is possible for the tracked element to be the same element as the animated element; see [Creating the trigger on the same element](#creating_the_trigger_on_the_same_element), later on.
```

Author: done

The example renders like so:

{{embedlivesample("basic-scroll-triggered", "100%", 500)}}

Note how the caption starts to fade in as soon as any part of the image becomes visible in the scrollport, whether you are moving it in from the bottom or the top. It doesn't fade out again until the entire image has moved out of the scrollport, so by default, you won't see this. If you scroll the image into view again, the caption will fade in again.

The {{domxref("ViewTimeline")}} created by the `view()` function tracks the position of the `<img>` element (which is called the **subject** or the **tracked element** for this purpose) across the block-axis of the nearest parent scroller.

> The triggers are activated and deactivated when the tracked element is scrolled to the start and end of the timeline range respectively, causing the `<figcaption>` to animate. By default, the animation range start is the point when the tracked element starts to enter the scrollport, and the animation range end is the point when the tracked element completely exits the scrollport. These are the activation and deactivation points, respectively.

Reviewer 2: i think we've incorporated most of the second paragraph. we should do the same for the terms in the first paragraph. Those are important terms, and likely should be placed in the list of terms above or under a header. currently, they're kind of lost / seem less important.

Author: I've moved this stuff to before the example rendering and combined it with the stuff that was previously there. It was a bit repetitive, as it was.

> ### Scroll-triggered versus scroll-driven animations

Reviewer 2: this is important, but seems a little out of place here. how about In "scroll-triggered animation concepts, so just before Scroll-triggered animation basics instead of at the end of it..

Author: Yeah, that works. I've moved it as suggested.

Scroll-triggered animations are similar to [CSS scroll-driven animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations), but they are different:

> - As demonstrated earlier, scroll-triggered animations are regular time-based animations that play when a trigger becomes active; they always complete in the same amount of time, regardless of how fast the user scrolls.

Reviewer 2: `same amount of time` - animation-duration.
```
...they always complete each iteration in the amount of time defined by the `animation-duration` ...
```
STAs also respect `animation-delay`, while SDAs ignores the animation-delay prop.

Author: I've added in this detail.

- With scroll-driven animations, the normal time-based animation timeline is replaced by a scroll-based timeline, meaning that the animation progresses forwards and backwards as you scroll towards the start and end of the content, with a faster scrolling speed resulting in a faster animation.

> ## Different types of trigger source

Reviewer 2: let's pull this section.
the tutorial is already long, so shrinking is a plus. As we don't show any examples with other values, so this is more of an aside, this is one way to make this guide more digestable.

Author: This is a good idea. I've taken that section and inserted it into the `timeline-trigger-source` page "Description" instead.

The `timeline-trigger-source` can be specified using various different values, most commonly:

- A [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/animation-timeline/view) function referencing an [anonymous view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#anonymous_view_progress_timeline_the_view_function) trigger. This is created on the nearest scrolling ancestor of the element that creates the trigger. As shown earlier, this allows you to create functionality whereby an element will start animating when it (or another element) reaches a certain scroll offset in the scrollport, and stop animating (or some other action) when it (or another element) reaches a different scroll offset. For example:

>   ```css

Reviewer 2: not sure what is going on with the linter. i know there was a comment a few weeks ago about spacing around code blocks and you fixed it i think, but it's raring its head again.

Author: AFAICS, the rendered version is fine, even if the source doesn't show the spacing. I just added the spacing into the source, and Prettier didn't remove it on save. It doesn't seem to have made much difference to the rendering, however.

  ```
  > [!NOTE]
  > See the [`timeline-trigger-source` `scroll()` example](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/timeline-trigger-source#basic_scroll_progress_timeline_source_usage).
- A {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}} referencing a [named view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#named_view_progress_timeline) or [named scroll progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#named_scroll_progress_timelines). This involves setting a {{cssxref("view-timeline-name")}} or {{cssxref("scroll-timeline-name")}} on the element that creates the trigger, and then referring to that name in the value of the `timeline-trigger-source` property, for example:
  ```css
  view-timeline-name: --my-timeline;
  timeline-trigger-source: --my-timeline;
  ```

Scroll progress timelines are arguably not as useful for scroll-triggered animations as view progress timelines. You are more likely to want an animation to start at a scroll offset relative to the scrollport, not after an arbitrary amount of scrolling, where the animation may well be triggered offscreen on smaller screens.

## Creating the trigger on the same element

> As we said earlier on, it is possible for the trigger to be created on the animated element — you might want to animate an element when it scrolls to a certain position in the scrollport. Let's demonstrate this with a modified version of the previous example in which the trigger is created on the {{htmlelement("figcaption")}} element (not the {{htmlelement("img")}} element), and the animated element is also the {{htmlelement("figcaption")}}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can define the trigger to be created on the animated element itself. Let's modify the previous example, to create the trigger on our animated {{htmlelement("figcaption")}} element (rather than the {{htmlelement("img")}} element).
```
if you don't go with my suggestions, still please delete redundant macro calls.

Author: Yeah, this is nice. I've used it.

The HTML is identical to the previous example. The CSS differs only in where the scroll-triggered animation properties are set.

> This time, the {{cssxref("animation")}}, {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}}, {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}}, and {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} properties are all set on the `<figcaption>` element — it will animate when it appears in the scrollport.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The HTML is identical to the previous example. The CSS is almost identical too, only differing where the `timeline-trigger-*` properties are set.

This time, the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}}, and {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} properties are set along with the  {{cssxref("animation")}}, {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}} properties on the `<figcaption>` element. The animation will be activated and deactivated now when the caption, rather than the image, are scrolled into and completely out of view, respectively. Before the caption was the subject and the image was the tracked element. Now the caption plays both roles.
```
What you wrote wasn't wrong, but i think hilighting the divide between animation v. timeline-trigger properties will make the distiction between subject and tracked element clearer. My rewrite can use help; i made it in suggestion format so you could see the points i think we need to harp on.

Author: I thought much of this was overly wordy, but I have included the last sentence, as that is useful.

```css live-sample___different-trigger
figcaption {
  animation: fade-in 1s ease-in both;
  animation-trigger: --t play-forwards play-backwards;
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
}
```

The updated rendering looks like this:

{{embedlivesample("different-trigger", "100%", 500)}}

In this case, the `<figcaption>` fades into view when it starts to appear in the scrollport.

## Adjusting the trigger activation range

> In the previous couple of examples, the trigger is activated (fade-in starts) when the tracked element starts to enter the scrollport from either edge, and the trigger is deactivated (fade-out starts) when the tracked element has completely left the scrollport at either edge — hence the fade out never being visible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous examples, the trigger is activated (fade-in starts) when the tracked element starts to enter the scrollport from either edge, and the trigger is deactivated (fade-out starts) when the tracked element has completely left the scrollport at either edge — hence the fade out is never visible.
```

> This is because the default activation range and active range when using a `view()` `timeline-trigger-source()` is the {{cssxref("timeline-range-name")}} `cover` value — the trigger activates as soon as the start edge of the tracked element enters the end edge of the scrollport, and deactivates when the end edge of the tracked element has exited the start edge of the scrollport.

Reviewer 2: need to define `activation-range` and `active-range`

or remove them and intro when discussed

Author: I've defined the activation range earlier on and edited it to include only activation range here.

I've then defined active range at the start of the active range section.

> We can change the start and end offsets of the activation range using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-start")}} and {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-end")}} properties, respectively, or the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range")}} shorthand to set both values in a single declaration. Each these properties can take as values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can offset the start and end of the activation range using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-start")}} and {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-end")}} properties, respectively, or the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range")}} shorthand to set both values in a single declaration. Each these properties can take as values:
```

> - A {{cssxref("length-percentage")}} value to specify a different point along the default range.

Reviewer 2: state what the % is relative to.

Author: done

> - A different `timeline-range-name` keyword to specify a different range.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A {{cssxref("timeline-range-name")}} keyword specifying a named range.
```

> - A `timeline-range-name` and a `<length-percentage>` to specify a certain point along a different range.

Reviewer 2: percents again.
values for both start and end are always from teh start of the named range to which the length-percentage is associated.

Author: yup, this got dealt with

- Scroll-triggered animations are regular time-based animations that play when a trigger becomes active; they always complete iterations in the amount of time defined by the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}}, regardless of how fast the user scrolls. They also observe {{cssxref("animation-delay")}} settings.
- With scroll-driven animations, the normal time-based animation timeline is replaced by a scroll-based timeline, meaning that the animation progresses forwards and backwards as you scroll towards the start and end of the content, with a faster scrolling speed resulting in a faster animation. Scroll-driven animations ignore the `animation-duration` and `animation-delay` properties.

## Scroll-triggered animation basics

Let's walk through a basic example to show you how a scroll-triggered animation works. An image caption will fade in and out when the image it is captioning is scrolled into and out of view. In this case:

- The {{htmlelement("figcaption")}} element has a {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animation set on it: a fade-in effect. This animation is the _triggered animation_.

> - We will specify that the animation should play forwards when the trigger is _activated_, fading the caption in, and play backwards when the trigger is _deactivated_, fading the caption out. These are the _animation actions_.

Reviewer 2: Clarify what "these" refer to in "These are the _animation actions_."

Author: I've rejigged the sentence a bit:

> - For the _animation actions_, we specify that the animation should play forwards when the trigger is _activated_, fading the caption in, and play backwards when the trigger is _deactivated_, fading the caption out.

}

figure {
  display: block;
  margin: 0 auto;
  max-width: 60%;
  position: relative;
}

img {
  max-width: 100%;
  border: 3px solid black;
}

h1 {
  font-size: 3rem;
}

p {
  line-height: 1.5;
}

figcaption {
  font-size: 1rem;
  padding: 5px;
  position: absolute;
  top: 5px;
  left: 5px;
  border: 3px solid black;
  background: white;
}
```

The first ruleset applies the animation and an animation trigger, along with the animation actions to the {{htmlelement("figcaption")}} element:

1. We use the {{cssxref("animation")}} shorthand to apply the `fade-in` animation to `<figcaption>`. By itself, without triggers, this would cause the `<figcaption>` to fade into view as soon as the page loads.
2. We use the {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}} property to define which element will provide the triggers, and what those trigger's actions will be. This results in the start of the animation being delayed until the {{htmlelement("img")}} element is scrolled into view. The `animation-trigger` property value components include:
   - A {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}, `--t`, which is the identifier set as the value of the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}} property on the triggering element.

>    - Two {{cssxref("&lt;animation-action>")}} values, which specify how the animation should behave when the trigger is activated and deactivated. When the trigger is activated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play forwards. When the trigger is deactivated, we set the `<figcaption>` element's animation to play backwards.

Reviewer 2: maybe link to the actions section from here.

Author: done

The HTML is identical to the previous example. The CSS differs only in where the `timeline-trigger-*` properties are set.

This time, the {{cssxref("animation")}}, {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}}, {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}}, and {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}} properties are all set on the `<figcaption>` element — it will animate when it appears in the scrollport. In the previous example, the `<figcaption>` was the animated element and the `<img>` was the tracked element. Now the caption plays both roles.

```css live-sample___same-element-trigger
figcaption {
  animation: fade-in 1s ease-in both;
  animation-trigger: --t play-forwards play-backwards;
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
}
```

The updated rendering looks like this:

{{embedlivesample("same-element-trigger", "100%", 500)}}

In this case, the `<figcaption>` fades into view when it starts to enter the scrollport.

## Adjusting the trigger activation range

> In the previous examples, the trigger activates (`fade-in` starts) as soon as the start edge of the tracked element enters the end edge of the scrollport, and deactivates (fade-out starts: `fade-in` is played backwards) when the end edge of the tracked element has exited the start edge of the scrollport. As a result, the fade out is never visible.

Reviewer 2: This is the reason i suggested putting animation-actions before trigger activation range.
```suggestion
In the previous examples, the trigger activates as soon as the start edge of the tracked element enters the end edge of the scrollport, and deactivates when the end edge of the tracked element has exited the start edge of the scrollport. As a result, the fade out deactivation effect is never visible.
```
if we don't reorder, let's "gloss over" the effects/animation-actions, then explain it in that sectoin

Reviewer 2: it activates and deactivates in both directions, so it's either block edge, not end and start edge.

Author: As for your first comment, we do introduce animation actions in brief earlier in the article, so I think this detail is fine for this polace in the article. When we get to the animation actions section, we elaborate a bit.

As for the second comment, I've updated the wording in light of this.

> This is because the default activation range {{cssxref("timeline-range-name")}} when using a `view()` as the `timeline-trigger-source()` is `cover`.

Reviewer 2: suggested a reorder because we've already said this several times... so integrating it into the content instead of stating it again.

Author: It is only stated once before this point. I think this is ok as-is.

> This is because the default activation range {{cssxref("timeline-range-name")}} when using a `view()` as the `timeline-trigger-source()` is `cover`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is because the default activation range {{cssxref("timeline-range-name")}} when using a `view()` as the `timeline-trigger-source` is `cover`.
```

Author: fixed

> We can offset the start and end of the activation range using the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-start")}} and {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range-end")}} properties, respectively, or the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range")}} shorthand to set both values in a single declaration. Each these properties can take as values:

Reviewer 2: takes a comma separated list of these values. `normal` is also valid (and it computes to cover or scroll depending on the source

Author: I've added `normal` in, but I don't think we need to specify one or more comma-separated values here. Precise, yes, but I think it just makes the section more confusing. I've deliberately used the slightly vague "Each these properties can take as values:" so that it isn't factually incorrect.

- A {{cssxref("length-percentage")}} value to specify a point along the default range.
- A {{cssxref("timeline-range-name")}} keyword specifying a named range.

> - A `timeline-range-name` and a `<length-percentage>` to specify a point along a different range.

Reviewer 2: named range. `cover` is not different.

Author: updated

Percentages are relative to the length of the `<timeline-range-name>`, which resolves to `cover` for our [view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#view_progress_timelines). Had we set [`scroll()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#scroll_progress_timelines) as our {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-source")}}, the default `<timeline-range-name>` would have resolved to `scroll`. See [Timeline range names](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timeline_range_names) to learn about the `<timeline-range-name>` values.

> The following example will cause the trigger to activate `50%` of the way through the `entry` range (when `50%` of the tracked element has crossed the scrollport's end edge) and deactivate `0%` of the way through the `exit` range (when the tracked element's start edge starts to cross the scrollport's start edge).

Reviewer 2: same end / start edge v. block edge issue

Author: Updated

```css
timeline-trigger-activation-range: entry 50% exit 0%;
```

Let's apply this to our first example so you can see what the effect is. Our `img` ruleset is updated to the following:

```css live-sample___adjust-range
img {
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
  timeline-trigger-activation-range: entry 50% exit 0%;
}
```

The updated rendering looks like this:

{{embedlivesample("adjust-range", "100%", 500)}}

> The animation of the `<figcaption>` is now a bit more useful — it only starts to fade into view when a significant portion of the `<img>` has entered the scrollport at its end edge, and it starts to fade out when the `<img>` has started to exit the scrollport at its start edge.

Reviewer 2: Also state what happens when you scroll it back into view; when it is reactivated after it's been deactivated.

Author: done

## The timeline-trigger shorthand

So far, we've written all our scroll-triggered animation CSS out as a mixture of shorthand and longhand properties in order to best explain each of the properties and their values. However, this is cumbersome and wordy. Now you've understood the concepts, we can use the {{cssxref("timeline-trigger")}} shorthand to create the shortest possible equivalent. You'll likely opt for this shorthand in your future projects.

Taking these declarations as an example:

```css
img {
  timeline-trigger-name: --t;
  timeline-trigger-source: view();
  timeline-trigger-activation-range: contain 25% contain 75%;
  timeline-trigger-active-range: entry 0% exit 100%;
}
```

We can rewrite these using the following shorthand:

```css
img {
  timeline-trigger: --t view() contain 25% contain 75% / entry 0% exit 100%;
}
```

## Adjusting the animation's action

Examine the following `animation-trigger` declaration, which is used in several of the previous examples:

```css
animation-trigger: --t play-forwards play-backwards;
```

> The {{cssxref("animation-action")}} values `play-forwards` and `play-backwards` specify that the animation plays forwards when the trigger activates, and backwards when the trigger deactivates. If we set the following `animation` declaration on the same element:

Reviewer 2: The important point to make is that first value is activation and the second is deactivation.

Author: added

```css
animation: fade-in 1s ease-in both;
```

The animation only happens once when the trigger is activated, and once in reverse when it is deactivated: we didn't specify an {{cssxref("animation-iteration-count")}} in our `animation` shorthand, therefore the default value, `1`, is used.

There are other `animation-action` values that can be set to produce different effects. For example:

- `play-once` causes the animation to play only once. Once finished, it won't play again on subsequent activations/deactivations.

> - `play` causes the animation to play, in whatever direction it was previously playing in. In contrast, `play-forwards` and `play-backwards` ensure that the animation plays forwards or backwards, respectively, adjusting the animation's direction of play if required.

Reviewer 2: if the animation is declared as `animation: fade-in 0.4s ease-in reverse both;`, so the `animation-direction` is reverse, is this true?

Author: Damn it, you're right. The animation still plays in reverse if `reverse` is specified and you do `play-forwards` and `play-backwards`.

The way I had written it is the way I thought I'd understood it.

I've updated the wording to

> In contrast, `play-forwards` and `play-backwards` ensure that the animation plays forwards or backwards, respectively.

This still raises questions around why play and play-forwards both exist. Maybe @bramus could help answer this?

Reviewer 3: Hope this provides some clarity:

`play-forwards` and `play-backwards` interact with the `playbackRate` not `animation-direction`.  `play-forwards` sets the `playbackRate` to the absolute value of its current value (i.e. positive) while `play-backwards` set it to **-1** * the absolute value of the current value (i.e. negative). 

> This still raises questions around why play and play-forwards both exist. Maybe @bramus could help answer this?

`play ` does not affect the `playbackRate` and was added to make it possible to continue playback in whatever the current direction was. `play-forwards` and `play-backwards` are intended to be used in cases where the author wants to alternate the animations visual effect.

Author: Thanks a lot, @DavMila, for the clarification. Looking back at the `<animation-action>` ref page, it seems we already have this mostly correct. I've updated the descriptions on this page and the `<animation-action>` ref page to make it crystal clear that it is the `playbackRate` that is affected, not the `animation-direction`.

For example, on this page:

> - `play` causes the animation to play, in whatever direction it was previously playing in. In contrast, `play-forwards` and `play-backwards` interact with the animation's {{domxref("Animation.playbackRate", "playbackRate")}}, setting it to its absolute positive value or its absolute positive value multiplied by `-1`, respectively. This results in the animation playing forwards or backwards. Note that the {{cssxref("animation-direction")}} value is not affected.

> - `pause` causes the animation to pause. For example, you could set an animation's iteration count to `infinite`, and set the corresponding `animation-trigger` to `--t play pause`: This would cause the animation to play when the trigger is activated, and pause when it deactivates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `pause` causes the animation to pause. For example, you could set an animation's iteration count to `infinite`, and set the corresponding `animation-trigger` to `--t play pause`: This would cause the animation to play when the trigger is activated, pause when it deactivates, and restart playing from where it left off when it was paused.
```

Author: This doesn't make sense. Do you mean "left off when it was reactivated." rather than "left off when it was paused." ?

- `reset` has the same effect as `pause`, except that additionally it sets the animation progress back to `0`.

Some of these values are designed to be used together. For example, `play-forwards play-backwards` is very common when you want a UI element to "animate in" when it appears on-screen and then "animate out" again when it goes off-screen, whereas `play pause` is common for animating an element as it appears, then pausing the animation as it starts to go off-screen.

> Let's look at a brief example — we'll take our first example and change it so that our `<figure>` fades in once when has completely entered the scrollport, and doesn't animate again until the page is reloaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's look at a brief example — we'll take our first example and change it so that our `<figure>` only fades in once, when has completely entered the scrollport, and doesn't fade out or animate again until the page is reloaded.
```

Author: updated

We set the `animation-trigger` property's `animation-action` to `play-once` so that the animation only plays once when the `<figure>` first enters the activation range. We've also set the `timeline-trigger-activation-range` to `contain` so that the animation only plays when the `<figure>` is completely on-screen — it only plays once, so we don't want you to miss it.

```css live-sample___play-once
figure {
  animation: fade-in 1s ease-in both;
  animation-trigger: --t play-once;

  timeline-trigger: --t view() contain;
}
```

This example renders like so:

{{embedlivesample("play-once", "100%", 500)}}

> When you first scroll the `<figure>` on-screen, it will fade in. However, from that point on, it will stay at `100%` opacity regardless of how many times you scroll it up and down the scrollport. You can only get it to fade in again after refreshing the page (or reloading the embedded example's `<iframe>`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you first scroll the `<figure>` on-screen, it will fade in. It will stay at `100%` opacity regardless of how many times you scroll it up and down the scrollport. You can only get it to fade in again after refreshing the page (or reloading the embedded example's `<iframe>`).
```

Author: updated

## Trigger scope

Having multiple triggers with the same `timeline-trigger-name` can be problematic.

For example, if a document contains multiple repeated components, each containing a scroll-triggered animation where the animated element and tracked element are different elements, all of the animated elements will have their animations controlled by the last component's trigger, due to how their [triggers are determined by the browser](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/trigger-scope#description). This is likely not the desired behavior. You could fix this by using a different `timeline-trigger-name` in each component, but this is inconvenient.

The {{cssxref("trigger-scope")}} property can fix this problem by limiting the visibility, or "scope", of a `timeline-trigger-name` value to a specific subtree. The result is that each animated element can only have its animation triggered by a trigger created within the same scoped subtree. See the `trigger-scope` reference page for details of how this works and an example.

## Multiple scroll-triggered animations

> The {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}} property works in exactly the same way as the {{cssxref("animation")}} shorthand property and the other animation longhand properties with regards to setting [multiple values](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations/Using#setting_multiple_animation_property_values). If multiple `animation-name` values are set, but only a single `animation-trigger` value is set, the `animation-trigger` will apply to all the animations. If two `animation-trigger` values are set, they will cycle between the animations until all of them have an `animation-trigger` value set. And so on.

Reviewer 2: suggest adding intro sentences in each section that make the sequitor (how this section related to what we've already discussed) more apparent.

Author: I've added a couple of sentences at the start of this section and the "Creating the trigger on the same element" section, to make sure that the narrative is clear.

Let's look at an example that shows how you can use multiple animation triggers to progressively animate an element — applying further animations when new triggers are activated as the page scrolls.

The HTML for this example is similar to the HTML for previous examples except that we have included a {{htmlelement("section")}} element at the top containing some further content, and some empty {{htmlelement("div")}} elements interspersed throughout our main content that will have triggers created on them to trigger our animations.

```html
<section>
  <h2>Hello! This is my content!</h2>

  <p>

>     The countryside surrounding Cairns, located in eastern Australia, is a

Reviewer 2: we can limit the amount of text here since it isn't used, and lint makes it look awkward.

we have to change the text in this box. It is a duplicate of the first paragraph of the old content, so users may be confused that you made the first paragraph pop out.

Author: I've removed the first paragraph from the main text to eliminate the duplication. I've also cut down the amount of visible HTML on the page. I'm not removing more text from the source, as it is needed to make the page scroll.

    breathtakingly beautiful region characterized by diverse landscapes, lush
    greenery, and unique natural wonders.
  </p>
</section>

<h1>Information about Cairns</h1>

<p>...</p>

<div id="one"></div>

...

<div id="two"></div>

...

<div id="three"></div>

...
```

```html hidden live-sample___multiple-triggers
<section>
  <h2>Hello! This is my content!</h2>

  <p>

>     The countryside surrounding Cairns, located in eastern Australia, is a

Reviewer 2: so this needs to be changed, and the above can be shortened to the first few words of whatever you write here.

Author: See above

  Further west, the towering peaks of the Great Dividing Range present
  opportunities for adventurous hiking and exploring scenic vistas, including
  the iconic Walsh's Pyramid near Gordonvale.
</p>

<p>
  Lastly, the surrounding countryside is home to an impressive array of national
  parks and mountains. Barron Gorge National Park, for instance, showcases
  rugged terrain, deep gorges, and thundering waterfalls.
</p>

<p>
  You can embark on hiking trails that lead to breathtaking viewpoints, offering
  panoramic vistas of the surrounding rainforest-clad mountains and valleys.
  Further west, the towering peaks of the Great Dividing Range present
  opportunities for adventurous hiking and exploring scenic vistas, including
  the iconic Walsh's Pyramid near Gordonvale.
</p>

<div id="three"></div>

<p>
  You can embark on hiking trails that lead to breathtaking viewpoints, offering
  panoramic vistas of the surrounding rainforest-clad mountains and valleys.
  Further west, the towering peaks of the Great Dividing Range present
  opportunities for adventurous hiking and exploring scenic vistas, including
  the iconic Walsh's Pyramid near Gordonvale.
</p>
```

> In our CSS, we start by styling our `<section>` element, giving it a {{cssxref("position")}} of `fixed` and positioning it near the top-left of the scrollport. We then set three {{cssxref("animation")}} values, which will make the `<section>` slide in from the right of the screen, then reveal its contents, then slide down the screen and change its dimensions. Finally, we set an `animation-trigger` for each one of the animations so that they will be triggered by different triggers being activated.

Reviewer 2: let's intro what the look and feel will be before we start in on explaining how it is done.

avoid "finally" unless it's the final CSS, not the last declaration in a subsection of css.

Author: Finally removed. Starting state explained.

  font-size: 2rem;
}

p {
  font-size: 1.5rem;
  line-height: 1.5;
}

section {
  background: red;
  color: #fff0;
  border: 10px solid black;
  padding: 10px;
  width: 400px;
  height: 50px;
}

section p {
  font-size: 1.2rem;
}
```

```css live-sample___multiple-triggers
section {
  position: fixed;
  left: 1em;
  top: 1em;
  animation:
    slide-from-right 1s both,
    reveal 1s both,
    slide-down 1s forwards;
  animation-trigger:
    --t play-forwards play-backwards,
    --t2 play-forwards play-backwards,
    --t3 play-forwards play-backwards;
}
```

Next, we create triggers on the `<div>` elements, setting their {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-name")}} equal to the identifiers specified in the `<section>` elements' `animation-trigger` property values. This means that as the user scrolls, when each tracked `<div>` enters the scrollport, a different animation will be activated. In this case, our tracked elements are invisible — they don't contain any useful content and are only here to create the triggers.

```css live-sample___multiple-triggers
#one {
  timeline-trigger: --t view();
}

#two {
  timeline-trigger: --t2 view();
}

#three {
  timeline-trigger: --t3 view();
}
```

> At this point, we give the first and second `<div>` elements a `position` value of `sticky`. This is so that they are always kept on-screen when they scroll to the top of the scrollport, and therefore, the animations they have triggered are never deactivated. Depending on your use case, you might not need to do this — you can achieve a similar effect by instead setting `<animation-action>` values of `play-forwards pause` on your animation triggers, so that the animations pause at their end states when the tracked elements scroll off-screen at the top of the scrollport. However, the animations then behave oddly when you scroll backwards through the sequence.

Reviewer 2: This is hacky. Either change the animations or explain when multiple animations animate the same property

"The animations then behave oddly when you scroll backwards through the sequence." because multiple animations are animating the same property. We can explain which value takes precedence when that happens.

 "let's not allow the divs to scroll out of view to avoid deactivation" seems like is a no-go, unless this is what the CSSWG recommends. Can we use forwards or put all the `from` states as the element's default styles, rather than in the keyframes, so we don't have a `0%` keyframe, just a 100% keyframe? not sure if that is a solution.

Author: In the interests of getting this published, I've just removed the position sticky stuff, and changed the actions to `play-forwards pause`. The animations no longer reverse when you scroll back up, but it is simpler to explain this way.

```css live-sample___multiple-triggers
#one,
#two {
  position: sticky;
  top: 10px;
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I think we need a different solution. Isn't this what active range is good for? Unless this is what the spec recommends.

Author: I tried quite a few different variations of active range and couldn't find anything that would keep them active for the whole time like I wanted. This solution works.

Reviewer: (Drive by comment while I am on vacation, so I don't have the full context, so could be talking about the wrong thing)

With stickypos you are "delaying" the end offset. If the goal is to keep the trigger active from its starting point until the end scroll position, set the trigger's end to `scroll 100%`.

Author: I tried that, and it didn't give me the effect I wanted. I removed the sticky pos and simplified it generally, in the interests of getting this thing published.

Finally, we define the animation {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} referenced in the `<section>` element's `animation` property earlier on.

```css live-sample___multiple-triggers
@keyframes slide-from-right {
  from {
    translate: 400%;
  }
  to {
    translate: 1em;
  }
}

@keyframes reveal {
  from {
    color: #fff0;

>     height: 50px;

Reviewer 2: let's not animate box model properties.
to fix this whole section, make the three animations animate completely different properties; so no properties are in more than one `@keyframes`

Author: Replaced with a scale transform. It doesn't look quite as good, but that doesn't really matter.

  }
  to {
    color: #ffff;
    height: 240px;
  }
}

@keyframes slide-down {
  from {

>     top: 1em;

Reviewer 2: put all the from styles in the `section` declaration block.

Author: OK, done

    background: red;
    width: 400px;
    height: 240px;
  }
  to {

>     top: 48%;

Reviewer 2: animate transitions. never show examples animating box model properties (unless you're showing what not to do).

Author: Good point. I've replaced this with a `translate` animation.
